Before we get into sprint planning, let's talk about planning releases.
Let's do a context check.
Remember, a series of releases are contained in an Agile project,
so we can't do sprint planning without first
understanding how it fits into release planning.
Now let's look at the release planning workflow.
All Agile projects start with Agile project planning.
This is conducted by a product owner and the dev lead typically.
There may be other subject matter experts as well.
Also, the product owner is bringing in product requirements,
list of items, ideas, concepts, basically a draft of the backlog.
And yes, more times other than not, it can be a bit unstructured and fuzzy.
The team needs to produce a product vision,
which would include what the project is about,
why we are doing the project, and listing the success criteria,
which is the desired outcomes of the project.
Not really that different from other project visions
that you have seen in your career.
Also, the project roadmap is created, which I'll jump into in a moment.
The initial product backlog that may contain features,
user stories,
and epics of various chunkiness since we are still just starting out.
The roadmap will consist of one, two,
or several releases that would each describe the feature set to be
delivered in business terminology so that management and executive
leadership can relate and understand how it will help them.
Along with each release may be target dates.
Very rough and certainly would change based on the cadence of delivery.
And also, budgets may be assigned.
One of the flaws of pure Agile, as interpreted by developers,
is that they may like to ignore dates and budgets.
Please note, a senior executive doesn't usually care about how you work,
that is using Agile and sprints, but instead cares about the business,
what they can afford and when they need it.
So somehow these two worlds must come together for a win-win.
That could be your biggest challenge.
Trust me.
You will now identify the features and user stories
that you want to have in each release.
So the releases with their initially assigned features and
stories along with budgets and dates will make up the
project roadmap and release goals. Now let's go a little deeper into the release plans.